---
layout: post
comments: True
title: go Go ! 
---
I like simple things. Things that just work and help you focus on the job at 
hand, removing all the unnecessary clutter.

I have tinkered with many languages: Scala, C++, Java, Objective C, Python and Javascript.
I have liked some or the other feature in most of the languages. A few of them
have imparted a new way of thinking. The entire idea of nil in Objective 
C is unique, so was Scala's functional immutable way of thinking. C++ and Java 
introduced me to the OOP world. Python taught me the power of constraints. 

However writing code has never been more pleasurable than that in Go. The 
language is terse. The language designers have kept it extremely minimal such 
that it can be carried in head of a *bozo* like me. The tooling is absolutely 
brilliant and so is the standard library. More so the community has successfully 
kept that ethos.

A few months back I was involved in a DS search system that we wrote in C++. It 
took us 3 months to ship the project to production which was just brilliant. But 
looking back most of the time was spent in things that added no business value. 
They were just distractions. It is like being wounded by 1000 different cuts.

For example:
  - Which thread safe library to choose : folly ( facebook ) / intel's / boost
  - Which RPC system to use ( thrift - which version ? FB thrift ?) or Protobuf
  - Http Server anyone ?
  - Testing library ( gtest ? boost ?)
  - Logging library ( ??? )
  - Build system ( cmake ? )
  - Perf benchmarking
  - Resource leaks

The problem was further aided with really long compilation times. I am pretty 
sure most of us would have spend atleast 25% of the time waiting for compilation 
to complete. All this led to lower developer happiness. The next headache was 
deployment which thanks to docker was not as bad.  Besides the support for C++ 
atleast for vim is manageable at best. Most of the IDE's are monoliths which 
make the entire experience horrible ( perhaps barring Clion which again sucks on 
Ubuntu )

Working with Scala is a different story . There are so many choices 
that 5 people will end up picking 10 different frameworks. 3 ways to do 
concurrency, 15 ways to write the same things : foldLeft , foldRight, 
reduceLeft, reduceRight etc. Scala is so powerful and so extensive that even 
having worked for 9 months and reading 3 books I dont think I have covered even 
60% of the language.

In contrast writing code in Go has been love at first sight. For me the 
experience has been very similar to when I discovered Python and understood the 
beauty of vim. I really like Python for its small language spec and choices 
which the designers made. But python was never optimized from the aspect of 
working in huge interconnected network systems that we have today.

Go is. All the design decisions which *Rob Pike*, *Ken Thompson* and *Robert 
Griesemer* have made reflects that. It is a practical language which rather than 
settling for power shoots for simplicity. And therein lies Go's true power.

